---
cover: wolf-of-wall-street.jpg
layout: post
title:  "Getting What You Deserve"
date:   2014-08-20 1:52PM
categories: jekyll update
---

An Introverts Perspective
================


I recently had a conversation with a friend of mine that touched on something that I'm sure has effected everyone's lives at some point.  We talked about why some people get things in life, promotions, spouses, money, opportunities, etc., when it appears they have done nothing to earn such rewards.  Hard work is a cherished virtue in American society.  Picking one's self up by their bootstraps is prescribed as the only way to advance in life.  This leads me to believe that we live in a meritocracy, where things are based on achievement and individual ability.  We all know this isn't this case, but we seem to plug along with the illusion anyways.  So what is the X factor with some people?  Why do some people seem to have IT, while others do not?

I read a fantastic book a while back and I think it offers an insight to the questions I stated above.  The book is called <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Quiet-Power-Introverts-World-Talking/dp/0307352153/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1408569046&sr=1-1&keywords=quiet+the+power+of+introverts+in+a+world+that+can%27t+stop+talking" target="blank"> Quiet: The Power Of Introverts In A World That Can't Stop Talking </a>, by Susan Cain.  She does a wonderful job of addressing a lot of issues that face introverts in a world dominated by an extrovert ideal, so I'm not going to even try to match her work.  I will however borrow from her work that gets to the heart of my argument.  Extroverts will get things in life they may not actually deserve.  Before all of the extroverts come out of the woodwork and attack me, let me explain.

Both extroverts and introverts have pro's and con's.  My argument is neither for or against any one temperament.  My argument is that extroverts can be granted things simply because they are outgoing.  Which, once you get past the surface is quite amazing.  It completely blows the hard work ideal out of the water.  I am also not saying that all introverts work hard and all extroverts are lazy.    There are plenty of lazy and hard working people on both sides of the isle.  My point is that all things being equal, in my opinion, extroverts will be given preference in any given situation.  In fact, as Ms. Cain makes clear in her book, extroverts will dominate a conversation or decision making process when in reality they are not qualified or experienced to be in charge.  Again, they are rewarded with something that they don't deserve in the traditional sense.  

I was watching Charlie Rose one night (you should be too!!) and he had the actor Leonardo DiCaprio on the show.  They were discussing DiCaprio's new movie Wolf of Wall Street.  One topic they brought up is something I think ties into my argument.  They talk about the extrovert ideal in the form of the Confidence Man.  The definition of the Confidence Man is a person who swindles his victims by means of a confidence game.  Advancement without merit.  I am not labeling all extroverts as swindlers by an means.  I have met plenty of introverts who are manipulative in my lifetime.  Rather, I mean to point out that the Confidence Man embodies the extrovert ideal of being rewarded for their expansive nature.    

Recently, a wise man told me that life isn't fair and that's okay.  We've all heard that life isn't fair, but this was the first time I've heard the statement with the bit at the end about it being okay.  I considered that and came to realize it's completely true.  I disagree with the okay part, but I acknowledge that I can't change anything and life will continue on with this imbalance.  I realize now that I need to start controlling the narrative of me.  I need to try and use some of the extrovert ideal principles to my advantage.  When I've talked about extroverts getting things they don't deserve, I wasn't attacking extroverts, I am encouraging the introverts to stand up for themselves.  We may not be the social butterflies, but we tend to excel in the one on one arena.  You can get the rewards the extrovert gets, just simply do it in your own way.  

For example, I asked for a promotion at my work a while back, knowing that it would not be given to me.  I knew that simple hard work wasn't enough.  I socialized in my own way and paired that with my hard work to stand as my argument for getting the job.  How much that had an effect I'll never know, I did get promoted though!  But, I have noticed that I do feel more in control of my life.  I struggle with my introvert qualities in a world of extroverts, but I feel I have a better grasp in how to navigate it to get what I want.     

Life isn't fair and that's okay.  