---
layout: post
title:  "Round 2"
date:   2015-01-08 18:06:25
categories: jekyll update
tags: regular
image: /images/ironyardimage.jpg
---

Here we go again...
================

The new year brings with it many gifts.  Resolutions, cold weather, the promise of new beginnings, etc.  For me it brings a new adventure in the form of a web development boot camp.  Specifically the Ruby on Rails engineering course at <a href="http://theironyard.com/academy/rails-engineering/"> The Iron Yard</a>.  I've blogged about my first experience taking the course so I won't rehash that, but go ahead and root around my other posts to refresh yourself (go ahead, I'll wait..............).

Now that your all caught up, I'll fill you in on how the first week went.  

I've spent the past few months studying for this course, determined to not feel the way I did the first time through.  I slept well in the months leading up to the start of the course this past Monday, snuggling up in the warm blankets of preparedness.  The first two days went by okay, the drowning feeling  not making an appearance.  But, like a giant living in the hill side who comes down and terrorizes the townspeople at random, day three was a different story.  

I made it through the lecture in the morning but started to worry when the homework was assigned.  We had to get a game of hangman working from a half-way finished file provided by the instructor.  I sat down to start working on the program and was immediately hit with dread.  I started to panic a little bit, worried that I wasn't going to be able do this and a career that I really wanted was never going to happen.  The months of preparing were all for not.  

After staring at the screen of my laptop for several minutes, I realized that I just need to start typing something.  Get some part of the program to work no matter how simplistic it was.  So I started to type and soon got a function to work.  I quickly came to the realization that I had to accept I was brand new to programming and that I wasn't going to be very good at first.  I usually get upset when I am not immediately good at whatever I am trying, which probably isn't the best thing for me.  

This realization was sort of profound in the sense that a) I needed to not let the worry/fear affect me in a negative way, and b) just getting something on the screen gave me the confidence that I can do this.  I still have eleven more weeks to go so maybe my new found confidence will wither and die, but let's hope not!

I plan to blog my way through my time at The Iron Yard, so come back now ya hear!!

